= colorer

Easy ANSI code coloring for strings.

== Synopsis

    require 'colorer'
    Colorer.def_basic_styles
    Colorer.def_custom_styles :errorize => [ :red, :bold, :underline ],
                              :mysgr => [ :red, 8 ]

    "a red bold underlined text on white background".red.bold.underline.onwhite
    "an error string".errorize
    "my native (Select Graphic Rendition) string".mysgr

    '    reversed    '.reversed.or('==== reversed ====')

    Colorer.def_strip_ansi
    plain_text = colored_string.strip_ansi

=== Feedback!!!

This is feedback-driven software. Just send me a line about you and/or what you think about IRT:
that will be a wonderful contribution that will help me to keep improving (and documenting) this software.

My email address is ddnexus at gmail.com ... waiting for your. Ciao.

== Features

* Does not pollute String of unwanted methods
* Allows you to define basic styles with one line of code
* Allows you to easily add your own custom styles
* Allows extended (Select Graphic Rendition) parameters

=== Basic Styles

You can define the basic styles for any string by using the def_basic_styles method:

    # all basic styles
    Colorer.def_basic_styles
    "a string".green.bold.reversed.underline...

    # a few basic styles
    Colorer.define_styles [:bold, :reversed]
    "a string".bold.reversed

    # one basic style
    Colorer.define_styles :red
    "a string".red

==== Basic Styles List

* clear
* bold
* underline
* blinking
* reversed

* black
* red
* green
* yellow
* blue
* magenta
* cyan
* white

* onblack
* onred
* ongreen
* onyellow
* onblue
* onmagenta
* oncyan
* onwhite

=== Custom Styles

You can define your own custom styles by aggregating any basic styles names:

    Colorer.def_custom_styles :errorize => [ :red, :bold, :underline ],
                              :okize => [ :green, :bold ],
                              :crazyize => [ :magenta, :onyellow, :bold, :underline ]

    error_string.errorize
    # same as
    error_string.red.bold.underline
    ok_string.okeyze
    # same as
    ok_string.green.bold
    crazy_string.crazyize
    # same as
    crazy_string.magenta.onyellow.bold.underline

=== SGR Styles

You can also add native SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) parameters (0..109) to any style:

    Colorer.def_custom_styles :mysgr => [ :red, 8 ]

See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_colors for a complete list

=== Strict ANSI

Some terminals don't parse composite SGR styles correctly, and need separate SGR for each.

    puts "\e[7;31;46mSTRING\e[0m"         # strict_ansi == true (may be difficult to parse)
    puts "\e[7m\e[31m\e[46mSTRING\e[0m"   # strict_ansi == false

On the other way most of the terminals that parse them correctly can parse also separate SGRs,
so Colorer will output non strict ansi by default. If you want to have strict ansi you can do:

    Colorer.strict_ansi = true

or you can set the COLORER_ANSI_STRICT environment variable for a system wide setting.

=== Color

The color is true by defealut on a non-dumb tty terminal, anyway you can force it
by explicitly setting it:

    Colorer.color?         #=> true/false by default depending on your terminal
    Colorer.color = true   # force true
    Colorer.color?         #=> true
    Colorer.color = false  # force false
    Colorer.color?         #=> false

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Domizio Demichelis. See LICENSE for details.
